# IS562_Metadata_Application_Profile

  This metadata application profile (MAP) has been developed by Kaylen Dwyer, Gillian Dubin, Greta Heng, Yohta Shimizu, and Annabel Pinkney in partial completion of the course IS 562, Metadata in Theory and Practice. This documentation is the technical specification of the metadata application profile. It provides a list of all of the classes and properties recommended for use.
  
  The application profile is a comprehensive resource for implementing practical and meaningful metadata in a special collections or rare book library environment. This profile serves as an extension of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) Encoding Guidelines msdescription module for detailed description about primary sources, establishing a method for creating metadata records that includes detailed description about physical and digital surrogates and their competing rights statements, and multiple provenances, and technical metadata. This application profile is designed to serve the purposes of rare books and manuscript curators in libraries, being interoperable with Dublin Core, PREMIS, and CDWA in addition to the TEI, while still maintaining the specificity and flexibility necessary for the unique challenges faced by textual encoding projects.

  This application profile makes use of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) concept of FRBR. More specifically, this profile is built around the fact that a single work can have multiple manifestations. The authors of this profile believe that understanding these multiple manifestations and creating metadata on those manifestations that an institution has access to and/or ownership of will allow for better and easier record and item management.

  The creation of the MAP was inspired by the ongoing conversations occurring around the TEI Encoding Guidelines. In its description of early modern manuscripts and printed texts, the TEI does not favor space for the inclusion of surrogate data, ability for enumeration, or a format which addresses physical description as much as textual description, points which are addressed within the MAP.

  The profile uses a METS record as the base with an outline of set elements which, when used as described, provide the cataloger with an opportunity to record more detailed, granular data about the physical format, preservation information about the physical and digital objects, and allows for enumeration of all manifestations (digital or physical) of a given work. The MAP is intended for anyone who works with textual resources in digital form.
  
  This application profile will be useful for researchers and librarians alike, as it has the ability to record a detailed provenance, condition and conservation treatment history, and an enumerative account of each edition or version of text. The MAP is directed to the scholarly research community but is not restricted to academic applications. The MAP ideally will apply to texts in any language, of any date, in any literary genre or text type, without restriction on content.

  The appendices include introductions to two example records, provided as external documents. Appendix A is an example of a minimal encoding while Appendix B provides an example of a more complete record.
